JOIN THE FIGHT
How you can help researchers find ways to prevent and treat COVID-19.
HOW YOU CAN HELP
Scientists and doctors need your help to develop safe and effective vaccines and medicines to prevent and treat COVID-19. New vaccines and treatments are still being tested.
If you’ve never had COVID-19, you can join a clinical trial for these vaccines or for other ways to prevent the disease.
If you have COVID-19 now, you can join a clinical trial to help find better treatments.
If you have had COVID-19 in the past, you can donate plasma or blood to help others recover.
Physicians can help their patients register for clinical trials.
WE NEED PEOPLE LIKE YOU
Clinical trials evaluate whether a medical product like a vaccine or medicine is safe and effective for everyone. That’s why it’s important that people participating in clinical trials represent different races, ethnicities, and ages, and include people with disabilities as well.
Volunteers from at-risk communities must have access to and be able to enroll in these trials without barriers. When people from all communities take part in clinical trials, researchers can find better preventions and treatments that work for all.
You can help clinical trials represent all of us.
Where Can I Find a Clinical Trial for Preventing COVID-19?
Healthy people can help in the fight against the pandemic by volunteering for a clinical trial to find safe and effective new vaccines.
Even though the FDA has authorized some vaccines to prevent COVID-19, we still need volunteers for vaccine clinical trials. If we have several vaccines that work, we can end the pandemic sooner. We also need vaccines that can work for many different people.
Tell me about vaccine clinical trials
Simply put, a vaccine trains the immune system to recognize viruses, bacteria, and other germs, or pathogens, so the body can react. The human body produces special proteins called antibodies to fight germs like the virus that causes COVID-19. Vaccines introduce weakened or killed parts of pathogens, or elements that mimic their structure, into the body.
COVID-19 vaccines cause your body to safely develop antibodies that recognize and fight the coronavirus that causes the disease, greatly reducing the risk for full-scale infection.
What Treatment Trials of Investigational Drugs are Seeking Volunteers?
COVID-19 is a very complicated disease that affects people in many different ways. Some people have the disease without ever developing symptoms, but many more have a wide range of symptoms and some develop very severe cases of the disease.
People with the disease can help in the fight against COVID-19 by participating in a clinical trial to develop effective ways to treat the disease. Safe treatments that reduce the most dangerous symptoms in many patients, especially those at risk for complications, are urgently needed. You can help us find them.
Tell me about treatment clinical trials
Many people who have had COVID-19 continue to experience some health issues for several weeks or longer after their recovery, while others with milder symptoms recover with few lingering effects. Doctors are learning more every day about the longer-term health consequences of the disease. People who have recovered can help in the fight against COVID-19 by donating plasma that can be used to treat hospitalized patients, especially those who have severe cases of the disease.
Tell me how to help others recover
Where Can You Donate Plasma?
There are many options for donating convalescent plasma for the treatment of hospitalized, critically ill COVID-19 patients. If you have recovered from COVID-19, you can help others recover. Donate Plasma